>> Brown: THE PUSH FOR
IMMIGRATION REFORM IN CONGRESS
GAINED STEAM TODAY,  LAWASMAKERS
CLOSED IN ON A COMPROMISE ON
BORDER SECURITY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Suarez: AND I'M RAY SUAREZ ON
THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT.
WE HEAR FROM TWO SENATORS BEHIND
THE DRIVE FOR A DEAL, NORTH
DAKOTA REPUBLICAN JOHN HOEVEN
AND NEW MEXICO DEMOCRAT TOM
UDALL.
>> Brown: THEN, MARKETS AROUND
THE GLOBE TUMBLED TODAY.
WE EXAMINE HOW CONCERNS WITH A
CREDIT CRUNCH IN CHINA AND
UNCERTAINTY OVER THE FEDERAL
RESERVE HAVE WALL STREET
WORRIED.
>> Suarez: THE PREVALENCE OF THE
MOST COMMON S.T.D. AND PRINCIPAL
CAUSE OF CERVICAL CANCER HAS
BEEN CUT IN HALF.
MARGARET WARNER TALKS TO A TOP
C.D.C. OFFICIAL ON THE STRIKING
SUCCESS OF THE H.P.V. VACCINE
AMONG TEEN GIRLS.
>> Brown: "MONEY CAN'T BUY ME
LOVE", THE BEATLES SANG.
BUT PAUL SOLMAN ASKS, CAN IT BUY
ME HAPPINESS?
>> THE WEALTHIER YOU ARE, THE
MORE MONEY YOU SPEND ON STUFF
THAT INCREASES YOUR SENSE OF
WHAT YOU NEED IN LIFE, AND THAT
CAN BE A LITTLE BIT OF AN
ADDICTIVE CYCLE THAT DOES NOT
BRING YOU HAPPINESS.
>> Suarez: PLUS, TWO STORIED
SERIES; TWO CHAMPIONSHIPS ON THE
LINE.
WE DISCUSS THE LAST SECOND SHOTS
AND OVERTIME GOALS THAT HAVE
MADE THIS YEAR'S N.B.A. FINALS
AND STANLEY CUP CONTEST GAMES TO
BECHED AND REMBEEMRED.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Suarez: THE PROSPECTS FOR
PASSAGE OF IMMIGRATION REFORM,
BY A BIG MARGIN, APPEARED TO
BRIGHTEN CONSIDERABLY TODAY.
SUPPORTERS TALKED HOPEFULLY THAT
THEY'D MET DEMANDS FOR GREATLY
EXPANDED POLICING OF THE BORDER
WITH MEXICO.
>> MADAME SPEAKER, I RISE TO
SPEAK.
>> Suarez: TWO REPUBLICANS WENT
TO THE SENATE FLOOR THIS
AFTERNOON TO ANNOUNCE A
POTENTIALLY CRITICAL COMPROMISE
ON A KEY STICKING POINT FOR MANY
IN THE G.O.P.
>> AMERICANS WANT IMMIGRATION
REFORM, OF THAT THERE IS NO
DOUBT.
THEY WANT US TO GET IT RIGHT AND
THAT MEANS FIRST AND FOREMOST
SECURING THE BORDER.
>> SOME PEOPLE HAVE DESCRIBED
THIS AS A BORDER SURGE, AND THE
FACT IS THAT WE ARE INVESTING
RESOURCES IN SECURING OUR BORDER
THAT HAVE NEVER BEEN INVESTED
BEFORE.
>> Suarez: SENATORS JOHN HOEVEN
OF NORTH DAKOTA AND BOB CORKER
OF TENNESSEE WORKED OUT THE
BEEFED-UP SECURITY PROVISIONS.
THEIR LANGUAGE WOULD NEARLY
DOUBLE THE NUMBER OF BORDER
PATROL AGENTS TO 40,000 AT A
COST OF $30 BILLION OVER TEN
YEARS.
IT WOULD ALSO BUILD 700 MILES OF
ADDITIONAL BORDER FENCING AND IT
WOULD MAKE USE OF SURVEILLANCE
DRONES TO MONITOR ILLEGAL
CROSSINGS.
SOME 11 MILLION PEOPLE WOULD BE
GRANTED LEGAL STATUS FOR NOW.
THEY'D HAVE TO WAIT FOR GREEN
CARDS, GRANTING PERMANENT
RESIDENCY STATUS, UNTIL THE
BORDER SECURITY STEPS ARE
COMPLETED.
HOEVEN AND CORKER NEGOTIATED
WITH NEW YORK SENATOR CHARLES
SCHUMER AND OTHER MEMBERS OF THE
BIPARTISAN GANG OF EIGHT, WHO
WROTE THE ORIGINAL BILL.
>> SPEAKING ON BEHALF OF THE
DEMOCRATIC MEMBERS OF MY
BIPARTISAN GROUP, LET'S SAY
THIS: THERE IS STILL SOME
BARRING SOMETHING UNEXPECTED
WE'RE EXTREMELY ENTHUSIASTIC
THAT A BIPARTISAN AGREEMENT IS
AT HAND.
WE ARE ON THE VERGE OF A HUGE
BREAKTHROUGH ON BORDER SECURITY.
with THIS AGREEMENT WE BELIEVE
WE HAVE THE MAKINGS OF A STRONG,
BIPARTISAN FINAL VOTE IN FAVOR
OF THIS IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL.
>> Suarez: AND THERE WERE SOME
SIGNS THE COMPROMISE GHTMI WIN
THAT SUPPORT.
ILLINOIS REPUBLICAN SENATOR
MARK KIRK, SAID IN A STATEMENT:
OTHER REPUBLICANS, INCLUDING
ALABAMA'S JEFF SESSIONS, WERE
UNMOVED BY THE DEAL.
>> THERE ARE A HOST OF PROBLEMS
I THINK THE LEGISLATION THAT WE
I THINK WE CAN GET SOMETHING
DONE BUT WE'RE A LONG WAY FROM
THAT TODAY AND I DON'T THINK
THIS AMENDMENT IS GOING TO TOUCH
MANY OF THE OBCTIOJENS I SPOKE
ABOUT.
>> Suarez: IF THE BILL
ULTIMATELY SCORES A BIG ENOUGH
WIN IN THE SENATE, IT COULD PUT
NEW PRESSURE ON HOUSE SPEAKER
JOHN BOEHNER TO LET THE HOUSE
VOTE ON THE SAME BILL.
STILL, TODAY, HE SAID, IN
EFFECT, DON'T COUNT ON IT.
>> REGARDLESS OF WHAT T SENHEATE
DOES, THE HOUSE IS GOING TO WORK
ITS WILL.
OUR MEMBERS, WHEN WE GET BACK
AFTER JULY THE 4th, REPUBLICAN
CONFERENCE IS GOING TO HAVE A
SPECIAL CONFERENCE WHERE THERE'S
GOING TO BE A BROAD DISCUSSION
OF THIS.
AND NOW THAT, HOPEFULLY, WILL
DETERMINE, YOU KNOW, WHAT THE
WAY FORWARD IS.
>> Suarez: FOR NOW, AT LEAST,
THE HOUSE IS MOVING TOWARD A
VOTE ON A REPUBLICAN BILL THAT
DEALS WITH ENFORCEMENT ONLY.
MEANWHILE, BACK ON THE SENATE
FLOOR, MEMBERS CONTINUED TO
DEBATE OTHER AMENDMENTS.
THE SENATE IS HOPING TO COMPLETE
ITS WORK ON THE BILL BY JULY
FOURTH.
AND WE CONTINUE OUR DISCUSSIONS
WITH LAWMAKERS SHAPING THE
LEGISLATION.
I SPOKE WITH SENATOR HOEVEN A
SHORT TIME AGO.
SENATOR, WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
AT THIS HOUR, ARE YOU FEELING
CONFIDENT ABOUT ALL THE PIECES
BEING IN PLACE FOR A DEAL THAT
PREVIOUSLY RELUCTANT SENATORS
CAN SIGN ON TO?
>> WELL, WE PUT FORWARD A PIECE
OF LEGISLATION THAT WE'RE ADDING
TO THE BILL THAT GREATLY
STRENGTHENS BORDER SECURITY.
I THINK IT IS GOING TO REALLY
HELP IN TERMS OF GETTING A
BIPARTISAN SUPPORT FOR THE
IMMIGRATION REFORM LEGISLATION.
BUT, YOU KNOW, WE'RE KIND OF IN
THE LAST MINUTE OF GETTING
EVERYTHING BUTTONED UP, AND
THERE'S JUST A LOT GOING ON.
BUT I'M HOPEFUL IT WILL BE VERY
HELPFUL TO GETTING THE KIND OF
IMMIGRATION REFORM THE PEOPLE OF
THIS COUNTRY WANT.
>> WHAT ARE THE MOST IMPORTANT
NEW PROVISIONS?
WHAT HAS BEEN ADDED THAT HELPS
BRING ON BOARD SOME PEOPLE WHO
MIGHT NOT HAVE BEEN ABLE TO
SUPPORT THE BILL BEFORE?
>> IT REALLY STRENGTHENS BORDER
SECURITY.
WE PUT A $3.2 BILLION HIGH-TECH
STRATEGIC PLAN IN PLACE RIGHT IN
THE LEGISLATION THAT MUST BE
ACCOMPLISHED ON THE SOUTHERN
BORDER, EVERYTHING FROM UNMANNED
AIRCRAFT AND HELICOPTERS AND
PLANES FLYING THE DRONES, TO
SENSORS AND INFRARED DETECTORS
AND THE NEW VADEAR RADARS, AND
ALL THESE HIGH-TECH EQUIPMENT
THAT CAN MAKE A BIG DIFFERENCE,
BUT IN ADDITION, A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT OF MANPOWER, 20,000
BORDER PATROL AGENTS, 700 MILES
OF FENCE.
WE IMPLEMENT AN E-VERIFY SYSTEM
TO ENFORCE EMPLOYMENT LAW
NATIONWIDE, ELECTRONIC
ENTRY/EXIT SYSTEMS AT ALL OF OUR
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS AND
SEAPORTS.
THIS IS ABOUT MAKING SURE WE
HAVE A SECURE BORDER SO WE DON'T
FIND OURSELVES IN THE FUTURE IN
A SITUATION WHERE WE IS HAVE A
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS IN THE COUNTRY ONCE
WE ADDRESS THE REFORMS THAT ARE
CONTAINED IN THIS LEGISLATION
DISPLAI AT A TIME WHEN MUCH OF
THE DEBATE ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
CAPITOL HILL COMPLEX IS DOMINATE
BIDE ARGUMENTS OVER MONEY, THIS
SOUNDS PRETTY EXPENSIVE.
>> YOU KNOW, IT IS, BUT IT'S
FULLY PAID FOR, FULLY PAID FOR,
AND THIS LEGISLATION PROVIDE
SUBSTANTIAL DEFICIT REDUCTION AB
DONE WITH BORDER SECURITY, ABOUT
REFORMING OUR IMMIGRATION
SYSTEM, ABOUT GETTING THE
WORKERS WE NEED.
THE H-1 B, THE HIGH-END STEM
WORKERS THAT TYPE OF THING TO
GET OUR ECONOMY GOING, FULLY
PAID FOR AND PROVIDES
SIGNIFICANT DEFICIT REDUCTION AS
WELL.
>> Suarez: ARE THERE MEMBERS
OF YOUR CAUCUS WHO SIMPLY AREN'T
GOING TO VOTE FOR ANY PLAN
BROKERED BETWEEN THE GANG OF
EIGHT AND MEMBERS LIKE YOURSELF,
THAT EVEN WITH THESE NEW
PROVISIONS, THEY'RE SIMPLY NOT
GOING TO GO WITH YOU?
>> YOU KNOW, THERE ARE SOME
MEMBERS THAT ARE NOT GOING TO
VOTE FOR IT, BUT WE'RE WORKING
TO GET A VERY SUBSTANTIAL
BIPARTISAN MAJORITY, AND I
BELIEVE WE CAN, AND I THINK
THAT'S GOING TO HELP IN TERMS OF
ACTUALLY GETTING THE BILL ALL
THE WAY THROUGH THE HOUSE AND
INTO LAW.
>> Suarez: THAT WAS MY NEXT
QUESTION.
WHAT ABOUT THE HOUSE?
HOW MUCH OF A VOTE DO YOU NEED
COMING OUT OF SENATE?
DOES IT BUILD MOMENTUM COMING
OUT OF THE SENATE IF YOU CAN GET
THAT NUMBER WELL ABOVE 60?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND I THINK WE SHOULD-- YOU
KNOW, WE SHOULD TRY TO BE AT 70
OR MORE, IF POSSIBLE.
>> Suarez: AND YOU CAN DO THIS
BEFORE THE 4th OF JULY
RECESS, SIR?
>> YES, I BELIEVE WE CAN.
>> Suarez: SENATOR JOHN HOEVEN
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THANK YOU, GOOD TO BE WITH YOU.
NOW, WE GET AN OPINION FROM A
SENATOR REPRESENTING A BORDER
STATE.
TOM UDALL IS A DEMOCRAT FROM NEW
MEXICO.
SENATOR WELCOME.
DO THESE AMENDMENTS FROM
SENATORS CORKER AND HOEVEN GET
THE SENATE WHERE IT NEEDS TO BE?
ARE THE ELEMENTS NOW IN PLACE
FAIR VOTE NEXT WEEK.
>> AS YOU HEARD, ONE OF THE KEY
PARTS IS REALLY BORDER SECURITY.
IT'S ONE OF THREE, AND THIS
INCREASES BORDER SECURITY,
INVESTS MORE IN IT, IN
TECHNOLOGY, AND DOES EVERYTHING
YOU CAN TO TRY AND STOP PEOPLE
FROM COMING ACROSS.
NOW, ONE OF THE OTHER KEYS HERE,
OBVIOUSLY, IS MANY PEOPLE DON'T
CROSS THROUGH THE BORDER.
THEY COME IN ON A VEEZ, AND WHEN
IT EXPIRES THEY STAY.
THAT'S WHY THE EXIT/ENTRY SYSTEM
IS IMPORTANT BUT THE THREE
CENTRAL THINGS I THINK WE'VE
BEEN FOCUSING ON ARE, NUMBER 1,
BORDER SECURITY; NUMBER 2,
FINDING A PATHWAY OF EARNED
CITIZENSHIP FOR THE 11 MILLION
PEOPLE THAT ARE HERE; AND THE
THIRD IS REALLY DEALING WITH
EMPLOYERS, DEALING WITH THE
SITUATION WHERE EMPLOYERS IN THE
PAST HAVE BEEN HIRING PEOPLE
THEY SHOULDN'T BE HIRING.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A SYSTEM IN
PLACE THAT WILL CHECK IT OUT,
AND THEY WILL BE ABLE TO CALL
OVER INTERNET AND FIND OUT
WHETHER THEY CAN HIRE THIS
INDIVIDUAL.
SO ALL OF THIS IS VERY GOOD FOR
NEW MEXICO.
WE'VE SEEN A REAL INVESTMENT IN
ALL THESE AREAS OVER THE LAST
SIX OR SEVEN YEARS, DRAMATIC
DROP IN APPREHENSIONS.
WE'VE SEEN BORDER SECURITY
IMPROVE DISPP SO I'M GOING TO
LOOK VERY CLOSELY AT THIS
AMENDMENT AND SEE WHAT IT DOES
TO FURTHER IMPROVE THIS
SITUATION.
>> Suarez: WELL, IS THIS GOING
TO BE MORE THAN SOME DEMOCRATS,
SOME MEMBERS OF YOUR CAUCUS CAN
TAKE?
THEY WERE READY TO GO AHEAD WITH
APPROVAL OF THIS BILL WITHOUT
THESE ADDED MEASURES, WITHOUT
THE ADDED COST, AND WITHOUT THE
TWO-STEP VERSION, WHERE FIRST
YOU DO THE BORDER AND THEN YOU
DO THE LEGAL RESIDENCY.
ARE YOU IN A POSITION WHERE YOU
MAY LOSE DEMOCRATIC VOTES WHILE
GAINING REPUBLICAN ONES?
>> WELL, THAT'S ALWAYS A
POSSIBILITY, AND BECAUSE WE
DON'T KNOW ALL THE FULL DETAILS
AND EXACTLY HOW IT'S GOING TO
FUNCTION AND SEE LANGUAGE,
EVERYBODY HAS ALWAYS SAID THE
DEVIL IS IN THE DETAILS ON THIS
BILL.
WE KNOW WHAT WE WANT IN AN
OVERALL WAY IN TERMS OF BORDER
SECURITY.
WE KNOW THAT WE WANT AN EARNED
PATH TO CITIZENSHIP, WHERE YOU
DO THOSE BACKGROUND CHECKS AT
THE FRONT END SO THAT THE
CRIMINALS HAVE TO GO BACK TO
THEIR RESPECTIVE COUNTRIES.
AND THEN WE ALSO KNOW WE WANT TO
MAKE SURE WE DON'T CREATE THE
SITUATION OVER AGAIN AND HAVE
EMPLOYERS HIRING PEOPLE THAT
THEY SHOULDN'T BE HIRING.
AND SO THOSE ARE THE KEY
COMPONENTS, AND IT'S REALLY--
THE DEVIL IS IN THE DETAILS FOR
MANY OF US, I THINK, AND WE'RE
GOING TO BE SCRUTINIZING EVERY
AMENDMENT THAT COMES UP, OR
EVERY SUBSTITUTE BECAUSE WE HAD
A PRETTY GOOD PRODUCT COMING OUT
OF THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE.
IT HAD 41 BIPARTISAN AMENDMENTS
AND IT LOOKED VERY GOOD.
>> Suarez: DO YOU WORRY ABOUT
ENDING UP WHAT WHAT FOR MEMBERS
OF THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY MIGHT BE
THE WORST OF BOTH WORLDS,
PUTTING TS  VOTES, AND
THEN NOT CARRYING THE MATTER AT
THE END OF THE DAY WHEN IT'S ALL
DONE?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S VERY
IMPORTANT THAT WE HAVE, YOU
KNOW, THE WAY THE SENATE
FUNCTIONS NOW IS YOU CAN'T GET
ANYTHING OUT WITHOUT 60 VOTES.
AND SO WE HAVE TO HAVE
BIPARTISANSHIP BECAUSE RIGHT
NOW, WE ONLY HAVE 54 DEMOCRATS
IN THE SENATE, SO WE HAVE TO
REACH OUT AND WORK WITH THEM AND
THAT'S WHAT THESE EIGHT SENATORS
WHO HAVE BEEN WORKING ON THIS
FOR A LONG TIME DID.
THEY PUT A BILL TOGETHER.
THEY GOT IT THROUGH JUDICIARY.
IT'S ON THE FLOOR, AND WE HAVE
TO FIND WAYS TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE GOING TO GET A SUBSTANTIAL
MARGIN.
I DON'T KNOW THAT IT MAKES THAT
MUCH OF A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN 60
AND 70.
I THINK THE IMPORTANT THING IS
THAT WE'VE MADE A STATEMENT THAT
IS BIPARTISAN, AND THEN IT'S
GOING TO BE THE RESPONSIBILITY
OF THE HOUSE TO EITHER TAKE UP
OUR BILL OR DO SOMETHING
THEMSELVESES AND THEN GET IT
INTO CONFERENCE.
AND I THINK THE PRESIDENT WILL
PLAY A KEY ROLE IN THIS IN TERMS
OF WHAT HE'S WILLING TO SIGN AND
GIVING US THE INFORMATION WE
NEED TO FIND OUT IF THIS IS A
GOOD PIECE OF LEGISLATION.
>> Suarez: SENATOR TOM UDALL,
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US,
SENATOR.
>> THANK YOU, REAL PLEASURE.
>> Suarez: WE HAVE MUCH MORE
ONLINE.
YOU CAN FOLLOW ALONG WITH THE
DEBATE, AND VIEW MY DISCUSSION
SERIES EXAMINING THE
LEGISLATION, ON OUR IMMIGRATION
PAGE.
>> Brown: STILL TO COME ON THE
"NEWSHOUR": THE STOCK MARKET
TAKES A TUMBLE; THE SHARP
DECLINE OF H.P.V., THANKS TO A
NEW VACCINE; THE CONNECTION
BETWEEN WEALTH AND HAPPINESS AND
BIG DRAMA IN TWO CHAMPIONSHIP
SERIES.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: THE SELL-OFF
THAT STARTED ON WALL STREET
YESTERDAY TURNED INTO A ROUT
TODAY.
IT WAS FUELED IN PART, AGAIN, BY
FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN BEN
BERNANKE'S COMMENTS THAT THE FED
MIGHT START PARING BACK STIMULUS
EFFORTS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
PLUNGED NEARLY 354 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 14,758.
IT'S DOWN 560 POINTS IN TWO
DAYS.
THE NASDAQ FELL 78 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,364.
THE U.S. HOUSE TODAY REJECTED A
FIVE-YEAR, HALF-TRILLION-DOLLAR
FARM BILL.
THE BILL WOULD HAVE CUT FOOD
STAMPS BY $2 BILLION ANNUALLY,
BUT THAT WAS TOO MUCH FOR MANY
DEMOCRATS AND NOT ENOUGH FOR A
NUMBER OF REPUBLICANS.
DEMOCRATS ALSO OBJECTED TO
LETTING STATES SET NEW WORK
MANDATES FOR FOOD STAMP
RECIPIENTS.
WHEN IT WAS OVER, LEADERS ON
BOTH SIDES BLAMED THE OTHER.
TURN IT IN TO A PARTISAN BILL.
THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED ON THIS
>> IT REALLY IS A DISAPPOINTING
DAY.
BUT WE REMAIN READY TO WORK WITH
THE GENTLEMAN.
I'M HOPEFUL THAT TOMORROW,
PERHAPS NEXT WEEK, WILL BE A
BETTER WEEK.
>> Sreenivasan: WE GET MORE NOW,
ON JUST WHAT HAPPENED TO THE
FARM BILL, FROM TODD ZWILLICH,
WHO COVERS CONGRESS FOR "THE
TAKEAWAY" FROM PUBLIC RADIO
INTERNATIONAL AND W.N.Y.C.
TODD, THIS WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
BIPARTISAN.
THERE WERE SUPPOSED TO BE ENOUGH
VOTE.
WHAT HAPPENED?
>> WELL, THIS VOTE REALLY
IMPLODED ON THE FLOOR.
WHAT HAPPENED IS REPUBLICANS TWO
NEEDED 218 VOTES TO PASS THIS
THING COULDN'T GET IT.
THEY WERE RELYING ON DEMOCRATS
FOR UP TO 40 VOTES.
WHEN THE BILL CAME TO THE FLOOR
THEY ONTO GOT 21 DEMOCRATIC
VOTE, NOWHERE NEAR WHAT THEY
NEEDED.
DEMOCRATS ARE REALLY UPSET OVER
CUTS TO FOOD STAMPS, OTHER
NUTRITIONAL PROGRAMS.
THERE HAD BEEN A DEAL TO SUPPLY
40 VOTES, THAT JOHN BOEHNER
SIGNED ON FOR.
THE DEMOCRATS SAID THAT
REPUBLICANS KEPT PILING ON OTHER
AMENDMENTS THAT THEY DIDN'T
LIKE, AMENDMENTS THAT REQUIRED
MORE WORK REQUIREMENTS TO GET
FOOD STAMPS, IN SOME CASES DRUG
TESTING TO GET FOOD STAMPS.
AND IN THE END, TOO MANY
DEMOCRATS BOLTED.
THEY WOULDN'T SUPPORT IT, AND
THE BILL IMPLODED.
>> SOAP WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
DO WE GO BACK TO RULES FROM 1949
WHEN THE FARM BILL WAS PERMITTED
OR IS THIS GOING TO COME BACK UP
AGAIN IN ANOTHER WEEK?
>> PROBABLY NOT IN ANOTHER WEEK.
NOBODY REALLY KNOWS WHAT'S GOING
TO HAPPEN.
THE FARM BILL AUTHORIZATION
LASTS UNTIL SEPTEMBER 30.
THE FOOD STAMP PROGRAM LASTS
BEYOND THAT.
IT'S ON A DIFFERENT
AUTHORIZATION.
SO LUCKILY NOBODY WHO IS ON FOOD
STAMPS WILL GET CUT OFF ON
SEPTEMBER 30 IF THEY CAN'T REACH
A DEAL.
THEY HAVE TO GO BACK TO THE
DRAWING BOARD HERE.
THEY COULD STILL HAVE A
CONFERENCE EVEN IF THE HOUSE
DOESN'T PASS A BILL.
THEY HAVE DONE THAT BEFORE, LIKE
ON THE HIGHWAY BILL.
THE HOUSE NEVER REALLY GOT MUCH
PASSED BUT THEY MANAGED TO GET A
CONFERENCE BECAUSE THEY REALLY
WANTED A DEAL.
THAT COULD HAPPEN HERE, BUT THE
WAY FORWARD IS NOT CLEAR RIGHT
NOW.
>> TODD ZWILLICH, THANK YOU.
IN AFGHANISTAN TODAY, PRESIDENT
HAMID KARZAI CHANGED HIS MIND
AGAIN AND SAID HE IS WILLING TO
JOIN PEACE TALKS WITH THE
TALIBAN AFTER ALL.
THAT'S PROVIDED THE TALIBAN FLAG
AND NAMEPLATE ARE REMOVED FROM
THE GROUP'S OFFICE IN DOHA,
QATAR.
MEANWHILE, THE TALIBAN OFFERED
TO RELEASE U.S. ARMY SERGEANT
BOWE BERGDAHL, WHO WAS CAPTURED
FOUR YEARS AGO.
IN EXCHANGE, THE U.S. WOULD HAVE
TO FREE FIVE SENIOR TALIBAN
OPERATIVES, NOW HELD AT
GUANTANAMO BAY.
THE PEOPLE OF SINGAPORE
STRUGGLED TODAY TO DRAW A CLEAR
BREATH, IN THE WORST AIR
POLLUTION EVER RECORDED THERE.
A THICK, SMOKY HAZE HAS DRIFTED
OVER FROM SUMATRA, IN INDONESIA,
WHERE FARMERS ILLEGALLY BURN
LAND TO CLEAR IT FOR PLANTING.
IN RECENT DAYS, THE SMOG
ENVELOPED SINGAPORE'S SKYLINE.
IT'S AN ANNUAL PROBLEM, AND THE
WARNED THERE'S NO WAY TO TELL
HOW LONG IT WILL LAST.
>> WE CAN'T TELL HOW THIS
PROBLEM IS GOING TO DEVELOP
BECAUSE IT DEPENDS ON THE
BURNING.
IT DEPENDS ON THE WEATHER.
IT DEPENDS ON THE WIND.
IT CAN EASILY LAST FOR SEVERAL
WEEKS AND QUITE POSSIBLY IT
COULD LAST LONGER UNTIL THE DRY
SEASON ENDS IN SUMATRA WHICH MAY
BE SEPTEMBER OR OCTOBER.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PRIME
MINISTER URGED PEOPLE STAY
INDOORS AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
BUT INDONESIA CRITICIZED THE
PUBLIC STATEMENTS, SAYING THEY
SHOULD HAVE BEEN CONVEYED
THROUGH DIPLOMATIC CHANNELS.
A CABINET MINISTER SAID,
"SINGAPORE SHOULD NOT ACT LIKE
CHILDREN, MAKING ALL THAT
NOISE."
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
>> Brown: AND WE PICK UP ON THE
MARKETS FALL TODAY.
FOR THAT WE'RE JOINED BY DAVID
WESSEL, ECONOMICS EDITOR OF THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL."
AND JAMES PAULSEN, CHIEF
INVESTMENT STRATEGIST AT WELLS
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT.
DAVID, LET ME START WITH YOU.
ONE OF THE BIG THINGS AT ISSUE
HERE, OF COURSE, IS THE FED.
EXPLAIN WHAT INVESTORS ARE
REACTING TO.
>> WELL, YESTERDAY AFTERNOON,
THE FEDERAL RESERVE ENDED A
MEETING AND THEY SAID THEY WERE
A LITTLE MORE OPTIMISTIC ABOUT
THE ECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND FED
CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE SAID THE
FED WOULD KEEP BUYING $85
BILLION A MONTH IN TREASURY
BONDS AND MORTGAGES, BUT THAT IT
PLANNED, IF THE ECONOMY PERFORMS
AS HE EXPECTS IT TO, TO BEGIN
PARRING THAT BACK LATER THIS
YEAR AND TO STOP THIS BOND
BUYING BY THE MIDDLE OF NEXT
YEAR.
AND HE ALSO SAID THAT SHORT-TERM
INTEREST RATES, THE ONES THAT WE
GET ON OUR BANK DEPOSITS, THE
ONES THAT BANKS PAY EACH OTHER
OVERNIGHT, WILL REMAIN LOW FOR A
LONG TIME.
AND HE TRIED TO SAY IF THE
ECONOMY DOESN'T PERFORM AS WE
EXPECT, WE'LL RETHINK OUR PLAN.
WELL, BASICALLY, INVESTORS MUST
HAVE THOUGHT OH, MY GOSH.
THE DAY HAS COME WHEN THE FED IS
GOING TO START TO MAKE THE U.S.
ECONOMY AND THE WORLD ECONOMY GO
COLD TURKEY ON ALL THIS EASY
MONEY, AND THEY-- NOBODY WANTS
TO BE THE LAST GUY OUT OF THE
MARKET.
AND SO THEY REACTED VERY-- VERY
SWIFTLY, MORE THAN THAN I
SUSPECT THE FED ANTICIPATES.
>> Brown: JAMES PAWLZEN, IS IT
A SURPRISE.
EVERYONE KNEW AT SOME POINT THE
FED WOULD DO THIS.
>> I DON'T THINK SO.
I THINK THAT PART OF THE BIG
RESPONSE THAT DAIDV SPEAKS TO
HAS TO DO WITH THE FACT WE'VE
COME UP SO MUCH I THINK IN THE
LAST YEAR.
WE HAD A REALLY BIG RUN, 25%,
30% RUN.
OFTEN IN BIG BULL MARKETS YOU
HAVE VERY VIOLENT BUT SHORT-TERM
SORT OF PULL-BACKS AND I THINK
THIS WAS A CATALYST THAT ALLOWED
TRADERS TO SELL, THE EXCUSE TO
SELL.
I DO THINK THAT PEOPLE CALM DOWN
A LITTLE BIT, WE ADJUST TO
LITTLE HIGHER BOND YIELDS WE'RE
SEEING IN THE LAST FEW DAYS AS
THE FED STOPS BUYING MANY AS
MANY BONDS.
I THINK WE'LL CALM DOWN AND
REALIZE THAT THE FED'S REAL
MESSAGE IS THAT THE ECONOMY TO
THEM IS LOOKING A LITTLE BETTER,
AND THEY THINK FOR THE FIRST
TIME THE ECONOMY IS GET ALONG
WITH A LITTLE LESS SUPPORT FROM
THEM ALL ON ITS OWN AS AN EQUITY
INVESTOR THAT'S PROBABLY A GOOD
THING.
>> Brown: DAVID, THAT IS THE
PARADOX HERE, ISN'T IT?
WE GET EXCITED BECAUSE THE
MARKET DROPS SO DRAMATICALLY,
BUT THE FED IS DOING THIS IN
PART BECAUSE IT THINKS THE
ECONOMY IS GETTING BETTER.
>> EXACTLY.
THAT IS A PARADOX.
SO IF JIM IS RIGHT AND PEOPLE
BEGIN AFTER A COUPLE DAYS TO
REALIZE, YOU KNOW, THIS IS
REALLY GOOD NEWS, WE WANT TO
LIVE IN AN ECONOMY WHERE THE FED
DOESN'T HAVE TO BE KEEPING
INTEREST RATES NEAR ZERO FOREVER
AND WHERE WE BUMP ALONG AT SUCH
LOUSY GROARKTS THEN PEOPLE COULD
COME TO THEIR SENSE.
I THINK THERE ARE TWO
POSSIBILITIES FOR LESS-GOOD
OUTCOMES.
ONE IS THE MARKETS OVERREACT,
AND THAT HURTS THIS VERY FRAGILE
RECOVERY.
LOOK AT HOUSING.
SO MORTGAGE RATES ARE UP QUITE A
BIT.
THEY'RE AT THE HEIST LEVEL IN 14
MONTHS.
IF MORTGAGE RATES KEEP GOING UP,
WILL THAT HURTING THE HOUSING
MARKET?
AND WILL THAT-- RAIN ON THE
FED'S FORECAST?
THE SECOND THING IS THIS DOESN'T
HAPPEN IN A VACUUM.
THE REST OF THE WORLD IS ALWAYS
CHANGING, AND THERE WERE A
COUPLE OF CHANGES TODAY.
ONE IS CHINA SEEMS TO BE HAVING
SOME PROBLEMS.
THEY'RE TRYING TO STEP ON THE
BRAKES, HAVE LESCREDIT AVAILABLE
TO THEIR ECONOMY, BUT THEY HAVE
JUST EVEN MORE TROUBLE THAN THE
FED IN FIGURING OUT EXACTLY HOW
TO DO THAT SMOOTHLY.
WE SAW SHORT-TERM INTEREST RATES
RISE ABRUPT ABRUPTLY IN CHINA AT
THE SAME TIME THERE WERE REPORTS
THAT FACTORY OUTPUT IS DOWN.
AND EVERY DAY THERE SEEMS TO BE
A HEAD OUT OF EUROPE, SOMETIMES
GOOD, SOMETIMES BAD.
TODAY WAS A LITTLE WORRISOME
THAT MAYBE THERE IS TENSION
BETWEEN GREECE AND THE INTERNET
MONETARY FUND.
THIS ALL COMES AT A TIME WHEN
THE REST OF THE WORLD IS VERY
UNSETTLED.
>> Brown: JIM PAULSEN, PICK UP
ON THE CHINA PART OF THAT IN
PARTICULAR.
HOW DO YOU INTERPRET WHAT
HAPPENED THERE AND WHY IT HAD
SUCH AN IMPACT ON OUR MARKET.
>> PERSONALLY, JEFF, I THINK
CHINA IS THE BIGGEST RISK,
RATHER THAN THE FED.
I THINK THE SLOW-DOWN OF THE
EMERGING WORLD, LED MAYBE BY
CHINA IS HEAVILY INFLUENCING
GLOBAL EXPORT MARKETS,
PARTICULARLY UNITED STATES, AND
IT'S ONE OF THE REASON REASONS T
MANUFACTURING IS THE WEAKEST
PART OF OUR ECONOMY HERE, NOT
OUR HOUSING INDUSTRY.
I THINK THE EMERGING WORLD IS
HOLDING BACK OUR PRODUCTION
SIDE.
THAT'S A BIGGER ISSUE.
PERSONALLY, I THINK IT'S BECOME
MORE OF A CRISIS PITCH IN CHINA
MIGHT BE A GOOD THING BECAUSE IT
MIGHT, AS DAVID SAYS, MIGHT GET
POLICY OFFICIALS IN THAT REGION
TO EASE MORE IN THE FACE OF THAT
AND MAYBE TURN THAT SITUATION
AROUND A LITTLE BIT.
IF I COULD SAY ONE THING ABOUT
INTEREST RATES HERE.
>> Brown: SURE.
>> I THINK THE REASON RATES ARE
GOING HIGHER IN THIS COUNTRY
BECAUSE WE'RE FINALLY GETTING
MORE CONFIDENT ABOUT THE FUTURE.
YOU KNOW, SO WHICH TO ME IS
BETTER.
IS IT BETTER TO HAVE A 3%
MORTGAGE BUT MOST OF US ARE
SQUARED ARMAGEDDON IS JUST
AROUND THE CORNER?
OR IS IT BETTER TO HAVE A 3.5%
MORTGAGE WITH MOST OF US
STARTING TO FEEL MORE
COMFORTABLE ABOUT THE FUTURE?
I THINK HIGHER RATES WITH THE
MORE COMFORTABLE GENERAL
POPULOUS ABOUT THE ECONOMIC
FUTURE SAY MUCH BETTER SITUATION
THAN WHAT WE HAD EVEN WITH LOWER
RATES EARLIER.
>> Brown: DAVID, THAT ALL
DEPENDS ON WHERE YOU'RE SITTING,
RIGHT?
OUR VIEWERS WHO ARE WATCHING, IT
DEPEND ON THEIR PARTICULAR
POSITION, WHETHER THEY'RE
WATCHING THE MARKET, WHETHER
THEY WANT TO BUY A HOUSE, ET
CETERA.
>> WELL, THAT'S, OF COURSE,
TRUE.
THERE'S ALWAYS WINNERS AND
LOSERS, AND IF YOU'RE PUTTING
MONEY IN THE BANK, AND INTEREST
RATES GO UP, YOU'RE HAPPY, AND
IF YOU'RE BORROWING MONEY AND
INTEREST RATE GOES UP, YOU'RE
NOT HAPPY.
BUT I THINK JIM MAKES A VERY
GOOD POINT.
IF THIS IS A-- AN ABRUPT AND
UNSETTLING STEP TOWARDS A MORE
NORMAL ECONOMY WHERE THE FED
DOESN'T HAVE TO FREUD SO MUCH
CREDIT WHERE THE PRIVATE SECTOR
IS ABLE TO GROW A LITTLE BETTER
EACH MONTH THAN IT DID THE MONTH
BEFORE, THAT IS THE WORLD WE
WANT TO GET TO.
EVERYBODY WANTS TO BE IN A PLACE
WHERE THE U.S. ECONOMY IS STRONG
ENOUGH FOR INTEREST RATES TO BE
MORE NORMAL.
THE QUESTION IS ARE INTEREST
RATES RISING TOO FAST, GETTING
AHEAD OF THE FED AND GETTING
AHEAD OF THE ECONOMY?
OR IS THIS A SYMPTOM OF AN
IMPROVING ECONOMY?
AND I DON'T THINK WE REALLY KNOW
NOW.
PEOPLE HAVE DIFFERENT VIEWS ON
THAT.
WE'LL HAVE TO SEE WHAT HAPPENS.
>> Brown: WE WILL WATCH.
DAVID WESSEL AND JAMES PAULSEN,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Suarez: NOW, SOME STRIKING
RESULTS AFFIRMING A VACCINE'S
EFFECTIVENESS AT REDUCING
INFECTIONS AND A CANCER RISK.
MARGARET WARNER HAS THE STORY.
>> Warner: INFECTION BY A VIRUS
THAT CAUSES CERVICAL CANCER HAS
DROPPED MORE THAN 50 PERCENT IN
TEENAGE GIRLS SINCE A VACCINE
AGAINST THE VIRUS WAS INTRODUCED
IN 2006.
THAT'S THE FINDING IN A NEW
STUDY BY THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE
CONTROL AND PREVENTION, TESTING
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE NEW
VACCINE AGAINST HUMAN
PAPILLOMAVIRUS, OR H.P.V.
IT FOUND THE INFECTION RATE IN
GIRLS BETWEEN THE AGES OF 14 AND
19 DROPPED BY 56%, EVEN
THOUGH ONLY ONE-THIRD OF TEENAGE
GIRLS IN THE U.S. HAVE BEEN
VACCINATED WITH THE FULL THREE-
DOSE COURSE.
H.P.V. IS THE MOST COMMON
SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED VIRUS.
AN ESTIMATED 75% TO 80% OF MEN
AND WO AECTED DURING
THEIR LIFETIME, BUT MOST DO NOT
DEVELOP CANCER.
FOR MORE, WE TURN TO DR. ANNE
SCHUCHAT OF THE C.D.C.
SHE'S THE DIRECTOR OF ITS CENTER
FOR IMMUNIZATION AND RESPIRATORY
DISEASES.
DOCTOR, WELCOME.
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THE STUDY?
>> THIS IS REALLY EXCITING NEWS,
MARGARET.
WE HAVE A VACCINE THAT CAN
PREVENT CANCER, AND WE ALREADY
HAVE GREAT RESULTS OF THE IMPACT
IT'S HAVING IN TEENAGED GIRLS SO
FAR.
>> Warner: AND DID YOU EXPECT
TO SEE THIS SIGNIFICANT A
REDUCTION IN SUCH A SHORT PERIOD
OF TIME, ESPECIALLY WHEN ALL
TEENAGED GIRLS IN AMERICA ARE
NOT VACCINATED?
>> YOU KNOW, I WAS SURPRISED.
WE'RE VACCINATING TODAY IN ORDER
TO PREVENT CANCERS THAT WILL
HAPPEN DECADES FROM NOW.
WE'VE ALSO HAD VERY LOW UPTAKE
OF THE VACCINE.
SO THIS WAS AN EARLY LOOK AT THE
INFECTION RATE IN TEENS, AS WELL
AS OTHER AGE GROUPS, AND WE WERE
REALLY EXCITED TO SEE THAT WE'RE
ALREADY SEEING THIS IMPACT.
WE THINK THE IMPACT IS GREATER
THAN WE WERE EXPECTING WITH THE
LOW COVERAGE THAT WE HAVE, AND
THAT'S REALLY GOOD NEWS,
BECAUSE, UNFORTUNATELY, WE DON'T
HAVE GOOD COVERAGE.
WE HAVEN'T HAD GOOD UPTAKE OF
THIS VACCINE SO FAR.
SO FROM MY PERSPECTIVE, THIS IS
A REAL WAKE-UP THAT WE NEED TO
DO BETTER AND GET THIS VACCINE
OUT TO ALL THE TEENS IN THE
COUNTRY.
>> Warner: SO TELL BUS HOW
MANY TEENAGED GIRLS ARE GETTING
THIS VACCINATION?
WHEN DO YOU RECOMMEND THEY GET
IT?
WHEN YOU SAY THERE HASN'T BEEN
ENOUGH OF AN UPTAKE, WHAT DO YOU
MEAN?
>> WE RECOMMEND THAT TEENAGED
GIRLS AND BOYS RECEIVE THE
H.P.V. VACCINE SERIES STARTING
AT AGE 11 OR 12.
SO FAR, ONLY ABOUT HALF OF THE
GIRLS IN THE 13-17-YEAR-OLD AGE
GROUP HAVE RECEIVED ONE DOSE OF
VACCINE, AND ONLY ABOUT A THIRD
HAVE RECEIVED ALL THREE DOSES.
OUR RECOMMENDATION FOR BOYS IS
FAIRLY NEW, SO WE HAVEN'T REALLY
BEGUN GETTING GOOD RESULTS ON
THAT YET.
SOME PEOPLE WONDER WHETHER WE
CAN DO A GOOD JOB AT VACCINATING
TEENAGERS.
YOU KNOW, WE HAVE REALLY HIGH
VACCINATION RATES FOR INFANTS
AND TODDLERS IN THE U.S. BUT
WHAT WE HAVE SEEN IS VERY GOOD
UPTAKE OF OTHER TEENAGED
VACCINES.
RECENTLY THE VACCINE AGAINST
WHOOPING COUGH, THE VACCINE
AGAINST MENINGITIS.
THOSE ARE BOTH CLOSE TO 80%
UPSTAKE IN THE TEENAGE YEARS.
BUT FOR H.P.V., WE'RE REALLY
STUCK AT THIS ONE-THIRD OF GIRLS
WITH THE FULL SERIES, AND ONLY
HALF WITH EVEN ONE DOSE.
WE KNOW WE CAN DO BETTER, AND WE
NEED TO.
>> Warner: I WANT TO GET MORE
INTO WHY, WHY THE RESISTANCE.
BUT FIRST OF ALL, REMIND US OF--
I REPORTED IN THE INTRODUCTION
THAT 75% TO 80% OF AMERICANS GET
THIS H.P.V. AT SOME POINT IN
THEIR LIVES, BUT HOW MANY OF
THOSE CASES TURN INTO CANCER?
>> RIGHT.
WE THINK THAT ABOUT 19,000 WOMEN
GETS AN H.P.V.-RELATED CANCER
EVERY YEAR.
AND ABOUT-- I'M SORRY, ABOUT
8,000 MEN GET AN H.P.V.-RELATED
CANCER EACH YEAR.
MOST OF THE IT'S MOST COMMON
TYPE OF H.P.V.-RELATED CANCER IN
WOMEN IS CERVICAL CANCER.
THE MOST COMMON TYPE OF
H.P.V.-RELATED CANCER IN MEN IS
THROAT CANCER.
SO ONE THING THAT WE LIKE TO SAY
TO PUT THIS IN PERSPECTIVE IS
WITH THE LEVEL OF VACCINATION
COVERAGE WE HAVE RIGHT NOW, WE
ARE MISSING THE CHANCE TO
PREVENT A LOT OF CANCERS IN
GIRLS.
WE KNOW IF WE COULD RAISE OUR
COVERAGE FROM ABOUT 30% TO THE
80% FIGURE THAT'S OUR TARGET,
EVERY YEAR WE COULD PREVENT
4,400 CERVICAL CANCERS AND 1,400
FATAL CERVICAL CANCERS IN GIRLS.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT KEEPS
ME UP AT NIGHT IS HOW ARE WE
GOING TO IMPROVE OUR PROGRAM
BECAUSE EVERY YEAR OUR PROGRAM
STAYS AT THIS LOW LEVEL, ANOTHER
4,400 CERVICAL CANCERS WILL
HAPPEN.
>> Warner: WHAT DO YOU THINK
EXPLAINS THE DIFFICULTY YOU'VE
HAD IN GETTING MORE AMERICAN
FAMILI TESO GIVE IT IT THIS TO
THEIR DAUGHTERS?
>> I THINK THIS IS A COMPLEX
ISSUE.
OF COURSE, THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF
MEDIA ATTENTION TO H.P.V.
VACCINE.
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS WE'RE
FINDING IN OUR RESEARCH IS
CLINICIANS-- DOCTORS AND NURSES
-- ARE NOT GIVING STRONG
RECOMMENDATIONS.
THEY'RE KIND OF SENDING MIXED
SIGNALS OR MIXED MESSAGES.
I DON'T THINK THE PEDIATRICIANS
IN THE COUNTRY HAVE REALLY
REALIZED THAT THEY'RE THE ONES
WHO CAN PREVENT CANCERS IN THIS
POPULATION.
THE CANCERS SHOW UP LATER IN
LIFE.
THE PEDIATRICIANS DON'T TREAT
THE CANCERS, BUT IT'S THAT TIME
PERIOD, THE TEENAGE YEARS, WHERE
WE REALLY NEED TO GIVE THE
VACCINE OUT.
WE GIVE THE VACCINE OUT BEFORE
INFECTION TO PREVENT THE DISEASE
AND THE CANCERS THAT CAN OCCUR.
A LOT OF PARENTS, AND EVEN SOME
PROVIDERS ARE WONDERING, CAN'T
WE JUST WAIT UNTIL THEY'RE
SEXUALLY ACTIVE?
WHY DO WE HAVE TO DO THIS OR
TALK ABOUT THIS NOW AT THIS
EARLY AGE.
BUT IT'S JUST CRITICAL TO GET
THE VACCINE IN BEFORE SEXUAL
ACTIVITY BEGINS.
>> Warner: WHEN THIS VACCINE
WAS FIRST INTRODUCED, THERE WAS
SOME CONTROVERSY, ESPECIALLY
AMONG MORE CONSERVATIVE-MINDED
PEOPLE THAT IT WOULD ENCOURAGE
EARLY SEXUAL ACTIVITY OR THERE
MIGHT BE HEALTH RISKS.
HOW MUCH OF A FACTOR DO YOU
THINK THAT KIND OF RESISTAENC
IS, AND WHAT DO YOU SAY TO
PARENTS WHO HAVE THOSE CONCERNS?
>> THERE'S NO EVIDENCE TO
SUGGEST THAT VACCINATING AGAINST
H.P.V. WILL CHANGE SEXUAL
BEHAVIOR PATTERNS IN THE FUTURE.
WHAT I SAY TO PEOPLE IS HOW CAN
YOU NOT WANT TO PREVENT CANCER
IN YOUR DAUGHTER OR SON?
AS A CLINICIAN, AS A PARENT, AS
A COMMUNITY MEMBER, HOW CAN WE
NOT WANT TO USE AN ANTICANCER
VACCINE.
>> Warner: ALL RIGHT, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> MY PLEASURE, THANK YOU,
MARGARET.
MONEY MAKE US HAPPY?
"NEWSHOURONFOR ANSWERS
NOT ALL OF THEM INTUITIVE.
IT'S PART OF HIS ON-GOING
REPORTING "MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS."
>> Reporter: THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA AT BERKELEY, A KEY
LOCATION FOR ONE OF THE HOT NEW
SUB-FIELDS IN ECONOMICS:
HAPPINESS STUDIES.
BUT, DESPITE LIVING IN THE
WEALTHIEST ECONOMY IN THE
HISTORY OF THE WORLD, AMERICANS
ARE A SURPRISINGLY UNHAPPY LOT.
CHRISTINE CARTER IS A
SOCIOLOGIST AT BERKELEY'S
GREATER GOOD SCIENCE CENTER.
>> USUALLY WHAT WE SEE ACROSS
COUNTRIES IS THAT AS G.D.P. GOES
UP HAPPINESS GOES UP OR
SUBJECTIVE WELL BEING TENDS TO
GO UP AND THE U.S. IS KIND OF A
NOTABLE CASE IN THE SENSE THAT
IN THE LAST 35 YEARS AS G.D.P.
HAS GROWN WE ACTUALLY HAVEN'T
SEEN OUR AVERAGE HAPPINESS LEVEL
GO UP.
>> Reporter: WE'VE BEEN
FOLLOWING THIS LINE OF RESEARCH
FOR YEARS, RESEARCH THAT STUDIES
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND
PHYSIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF GROWING
ECONOMIC INEQUALITY.
AS ECONOMIST BOB FRANK IN HIS
1999 BOOK, LUXURY FEVER, WROTE:
>> CONCERN ABOUT POSITION IS A
VERY DEEP-SEATED PART OF THE
HUMAN BRAIN CHEMISTRY.
>> Reporter: SO DEEP SEATED THAT
STRESSING OVER IT CAN BE HARMFUL
TO YOUR HEALTH, AS BRITISH
EPIDEMIOLOGIST MICHAEL MARMOT
WROTE IN HIS 2004 BOOK, "THE
STATUS SYNDROME."
>> WHAT MY RESEARCH SHOWS AND
AND BY THAT, I MEAN, PEOPLE
SECOND FROM THE TOP HAVE WORSE
>> Reporter: AND ACCORDING TO
ANOTHER BRITISH EPIDEMIOLOGIST,
RICHARD WILKINSON, IN HIS 2011
BOOK THE SPIRIT LEVEL THE
GREATER THE DEGREE OF ECONOMIC
INEQUALITY, THE WORSE AN ENTIRE
NATIONS WELFARE.
>> SOCIETIES WITH BIGGER INCOME
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN RICH AND
POOR DO WORSE ON A WHOLE RANGE
OF MEASURES.
THEY HAVE WORSE HEALTH.
THEY HAVE MORE VIOLENCE.
THEY HAVE MORE DRUG PROBLEMS.
STANDARDS OF CHILD WELL-BEING
ARE WORSE.
>> Reporter: BUT EVEN IF AVERAGE
HAPPINESS HASN'T RISEN, THOSE
ATOP THE ECONOMY SHOULD BE
CONTENT, SINCE THEY'VE PROSPERED
AS NEVER BEFORE.
TURNS OUT THEY'RE NOT HAPPIER
EITHER.
SO, HOW COME?
>> THE FIRST THING I'M GOING TO
DO IS PUT ON A RESPIRATION BELT
FOR YOU.
>> Reporter: GRAD STUDENT
JENNIFER STELLAR WAS ABOUT TO
MEASURE THE BREATHING OF AN
UPPER-MIDDLE CLASS GUINEA PIG.
>> AND THIS IS TO MEASURE SKIN
CONDUCTANCE.
>> Reporter: MY SWEATING.
IS THIS LIKE THE LIE DETECTOR
TEST?
>> IT'S VERY SIMILAR.
>> Reporter: MY HEART RATE.
AND THIS IS LIKE AN E.K.G.
>> YES, THIS IS MEASURING YOUR
HEARTBEAT.
>> Reporter: TO GET BASELINE
READINGS, STELLAR HAD ME WATCH A
MUNDANE VIDEO ABOUT BUILDING A
CEMENT BLOCK WALL.
AND THEN, SHE HIT ME WITH THIS.
>> SO YOU CAN START THE VIDEO
NOW.
>> I'M 12 YEARS OLD AND I HAVE
NEUROBLASTOMA AND I'VE BEEN
FIGHTING IT FOR SEVEN YEARS.
IT'S REALLY, REALLY SERIOUS.
IT'S A VERY RARE CANCER.
>> Reporter: STELLAR HAS RUN THE
EXPERIMENT ON HUNDREDS OF RANDOM
PEOPLE TO TEST A HYPOTHESIS:
THAT THOSE OF HIGHER ECONOMIC
STATUS FEEL LESS COMPASSION THAN
THOSE LOWER DOWN.
AND COMPASSION TURNS OUT TO BE A
KEY INGREDIENT OF WELFARE OF
HAPPINESS.
STELLAR'S MENTOR, BERKELEY
PSYCHOLOGY PROFESSOR DACHER
KELTNER, SAYS THE LAB POSTULATED
THAT KIDS OF HIGHER AND LOWER
ECONOMIC STATUS EXPERIENCE THE
WORLD IN VERY DIFFERENT WAYS.
>> WHEN YOU GROW UP IN LOWER
CLASS BACKGROUNDS AND LOWER
CLASS CIRCUMSTANCES, THERE'S
JUST MORE DIFFICULTY IN YOUR
ENVIRONMENT; THERE'S MORE
UNPREDICTABILITY; THERE'S MORE
RISK; THERE ARE MORE THREATS AND
WHAT WE'VE LEARNED FROM REALLY
INTERESTING NEUROSCIENCE IS THAT
HUMANS, IN THE FACE OF THREAT,
CONNECT TO OTHER PEOPLE.
AND THEN COMPLEMENTARILY, WE
THOUGHT: YOU KNOW, IF YOU GROW
UP IN A MORE PRIVILEGED
CIRCUMSTANCE, YOU ORIENT INWARDS
TO WHAT'S INSIDE OF YOU.
AND THOSE ARE TWO FUNDAMENTALLY
DIFFERENT WAYS OF APPROACHING
THE WORLD.
>> Reporter: IN HIS OWN EARLY
WORK, KELTNER FOUND SOCIO-
ECONOMIC DIFFERENCES IN THE
ABILITY TO READ FACIAL
EXPRESSIONS.
>> HERE'S ANGER.
SADNESS.
HERE'S SYMPATHY, OR
COMPASSION...
>> Reporter: IT TURNED OUT THOSE
LOWER DOWN IN THE ECONOMY WERE
BETTER JUDGES OF EMOTIONAL
EXPRESSIONS-- EXPRESSIONS RATHER
MORE SUBTLE THAN THESE.
>> SO GIVEN WHAT WE FOUND EARLY,
WE DEVELOPED A HYPOTHESIS THAT
LOWER CLASS PEOPLE SHOULD
RESPOND WITH MORE COMPASSION
WHEN OTHER PEOPLE ARE SUFFERING.
THEY'RE JUST PAYING MORE CAREFUL
ATTENTION.
>> Reporter: STELLAR'S
EXPERIMENTS WERE THE FIRST TO
TEST THE THEORY.
AND INDEED, LOWER INCOME
SUBJECTS NOT ONLY REPORTED MORE
COMPASSION, THEIR VITAL SIGNS
INDICATED THEY REALLY MEANT IT,
ESPECIALLY THEIR SLOWER HEART
RATES.
AND THAT WORRIED ME.
WHAT IF-- TRUE TO MY OWN
SOCIOECONOMIC STATUS AND
CONTRARY TO MY SELF IMAGE-- MY
HEART RATE HADN'T SLOWED?
STELLAR TRIED TO ASSUAGE ME.
>> IT'S NOT THAT UPPER CLASS
INDIVIDUALS SEE SOMEONE WHO'S
SUFFERING AND JUST-- THEY DON'T
CARE, IT'S THAT THEY JUST MAYBE
DON'T NOTICE IN THEIR
ENVIRONMENT THAT THERE ARE
PEOPLE AROUND IN NEED, TO THE
SAME EXTENT AS LOWER SOCIAL
CLASS INDIVIDUALS.
>> BEING LOWER IN SOCIOECONOMIC
STATUS IS A TWO SIDED COIN.
YOU GET THE RISK BUT YOU ALSO
GET THE PROTECTION.
>> Reporter: RUDY MENDOZA DENTON
ALSO TEACHES PSYCHOLOGY AT
BERKELEY, STUDIES THE HEALTH
EFFECTS OF CLASS DIFFERENCES.
HIS LAB LOOKS FOR INFLAMMATION,
LINKED TO A HOST OF DISEASES AND
YES, CORROBORATING DOCTORS
MARMOT AND WILKINSON, IT'S
FINDING PLENTY AMONG THOSE LOWER
DOWN THE CLASS LADDER.
>> YOU PUT A LADDER ON A PIECE
OF PAPER AND YOU SAY, "OKAY,
RELATIVE TO OTHER PEOPLE IN THE
UNITED STATES, WHERE WOULD YOU
PLACE YOURSELF ALONG THESE TEN
RUNGS?"
AND THAT MEASURE HAS STRONG
PREDICTIVE EFFECTS FOR HEALTH.
>> Reporter: THE HIGHER UP YOU
ARE...
>> THE HIGHER UP YOU ARE, THE
BETTER YOU ARE.
IT MATTERS NOT ONLY WHETHER YOU
ARE OBJECTIVELY WEALTHY OR
HIGHER IN SOCIAL CLASS BUT HOW
YOU FEEL RELATIVE TO OTHER
PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: SO FEELING LOW CAN
MEAN GREATER STRESS, WORSE
HEALTH, MORE UNHAPPINESS.
BUT, SAYS MENDOZA-DENTON,
THERE'S A PROTECTIVE STRATEGY.
>> BEING LOWER IN SOCIAL CLASS
ALMOST BY DEFINITION MAKES IT SO
THAT YOU CAN'T CONTROL YOUR
OUTCOMES.
THE WAY THAT PEOPLE WHO ARE
LOWER IN SOCIAL CLASS COPE WITH
THAT IS BY RELYING ON THE THINGS
THAT THEY KNOW THEY CAN EXPECT
TO BE THERE.
AND WHAT DO PEOPLE KNOW THEY CAN
EXPECT TO BE THERE?
THEIR FRIENDS, THEIR FAMILY,
THEIR COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: SO IF I WERE LOWER
ON THE ECONOMIC TOTEM POLE, I
WOULDN'T BE VERY HAPPY, BUT
SUPPOSEDLY I'D BE MORE CONNECTED
TO OTHERS.
AND THAT GOT ME TO WORRYING.
IF TEST RESULTS SHOWED ME AS
UNCOMPASSIONATE, WOULD THAT THEN
BRAND ME AS A TYPICAL
EMOTIONALLY BANKRUPT PROSPEROUS
AMERICAN?
>> REGARDLESS OF THE MEASURE
THAT YOU USE TO ASSESS A
PARTICULAR STATE, OR FEELING, OR
ATTITUDE THAT YOU HAVE, THOSE
ATTITUDES CAN BE CHANGED.
>> Reporter: SO EVEN THOUGH
SUBCONSCIOUSLY I MAY NOT BE AS
COMPASSIONATE A PERSON AS I
THINK I AM, I CAN BECOME THAT
PERSON.
>> THERE'S A VERY SIMPLE WORD
THAT WE ALL USE AND ARE FAMILIAR
WITH AND IT'S CALLED LEARNING.
>> FOR EONS WE'VE THOUGHT OF
HAPPINESS AS A PERSONALITY TRAIT
AND IT'S ACTUALLY MUCH MORE
APPROPRIATE TO THINK OF IT AS A
SKILL OR A SET OF SKILLS THAT WE
CAN TEACH OURSELVES AND TEACH
OUR CHILDREN, THAT WE CAN
PRACTICE WITH THEM.
>> Reporter: MORE AND MORE
RESEARCH CONFIRMS WHAT THEY'RE
FINDING HERE AT BERKELEY, SAYS
CHRISTINE CARTER: NOT THAT THOSE
WHO HAVE LESS ARE HAPPIER, BUT
THAT THOSE WHO HAVE AND SPEND
MORE ARE OFTEN JUST SPEEDING UP
THE HAPPINESS TREADMILL.
>> THE WEALTHIER YOU ARE THE
MORE MONEY YOU SPEND ON STUFF
THAT INCREASES YOUR SENSE OF
WHAT YOU NEED IN LIFE AND THAT
CAN BE A LITTLE BIT OF AN
ADDICTIVE CYCLE THAT DOES NOT
BRING HAPPINESS.
LIKABILITY AND KINDNESS, AND
EMPATHY, THESE ARE THINGS THAT
MAKE YOU HAPPY.
THEY CONNECT YOU TO OTHER PEOPLE
AND THAT'S THE MOST IMPORTANT
THING.
>> Reporter: OKAY, ENOUGH
THEORY.
LET'S TALK ABOUT ME.
I TRY TO BE LIKABLE, KIND: HAD
THE VIDEO PROVOKED INVOLUNTARY
COMPASSION OR HADN'T IT?
NOT INITIALLY, SAID JENNIFER
STELLAR.
>> WHAT WE NOTICED WAS THE FIRST
TIME YOU WATCHED IT YOU DIDN'T
HAVE A VERY STRONG PHYSIOLOGICAL
RESPONSE.
>> Reporter: BUT IN ORDER TO
SHOOT THIS SCENE FROM MORE THAN
ONE ANGLE, I ACTUALLY HAD TO
WATCH THE VIDEO SEVERAL TIMES.
>> SO I LOOKED AT THE SECOND
TIME YOU WATCHED THE VIDEO AND
WE FOUND WHEN WE WATCHED IT THAT
TIME THAT WE SAW A DECREASE IN
HEART RATE WHICH IS WHAT WE TEND
TO FIND WHEN SOMEBODY IS
EXPERIENCING COMPASSION.
>> Reporter: AND THE THIRD
TIME...
SO MAYBE THE MORE FORTUNATE
AREN'T REALLY LESS COMPASSIONATE
DEEP DOWN.
OR MAYBE YOU SHOULDN'T READ MUCH
INTO ONE PERSON'S FIRST
REACTION.
OR, I CAN THINK OF ONE OTHER
POSSIBILITY: IF YOU'RE REALLY
TOO COMPASSIONATE, YOU'LL NEVER
RISE INTO THE UPPER CLASS.
>> AND, THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
WE'LL BE ABLE TO TEST WITH OUR
WORK.
IF YOU'RE TOO COMPASSIONATE, YOU
WON'T BE ABLE TO BE CUTTHROAT
ENOUGH MAKE IT TO THE TOP.
>> Reporter: FOR THE SAKE OF THE
AMERICAN ECONOMY, LET'S HOPE
THAT ISN'T THE FINDING OF
FURTHER RESEARCH HERE AT THE
GREATER GOOD SCIENCE CENTER.
>> Suarez: YOU CAN SEE MORE OF
PAUL'S CONVERSATION WITH
CHRISTINE CARTER ON OUR MAKING
SENSE PAGE.
IN HIS NEXT STORY, PAUL EXAMINES
MORE ABOUT THE PSYCHOLOGY OF
WEALTH.
>> Brown: NEXT, SOMETIMES SPORTS
REACHES BEYOND ITS REGULAR BASE
OF FANS.
THIS HAS BEEN ONE OF THOSE WEEKS
FILLED WITH DRAMA.
MIKE PESCA OF NPR HAS BEEN
TRYING TO KEEP UP WITH ALL THIS.
TONIGHT HE JOINS US FROM, WHERE
ELSE?
MIAMI, FOR GAME SEVEN OF THE
N.B.A. FINALS.
AND, MIKE, START RIGHT THERE.
YOU ARE, OF COURSE, BY
DEFINITION, EXCITED AT THIS TIME
OF YEAR, BUT WHAT MAKES THIS ONE
STAND OUT FOR THE REST OF US?
>> NO, NO, NO.
EXCITED, I JUST KEEP MY
PROFESSIONAL DISTANCE AND NO THE
WINNERS AND LOSERS.
ARE YOU KIDDING?
I'M EXTREMELY EXCITED.
WHEN THE HEAT WERE TRAILING BY
10 ENTERING THE FOURTH QUARTER
AND THE MOOD WAS GLOOMY, I THINK
I AND EVERYONE ELSE IN THE ARENA
WAS SAYING WELL, LET'S JUST PUT
A FIFTH RING ON TIM DUNCAN'S
FINGER.
LEBRON CAME BACK, SPURRED THE
TEAM ON WITHOUT A HEADBAND,
THREE-POINT SHOTS BY RAY ALLEN.
IT WAS AN AMAZING, AMAZING GAME.
I THINK THIS GAME SEVEN, LIKE
ALL GAME SEVENS BY DEFINITION IS
VERY IMPORTANT, YOU HEARD THE
COACH SAYS IT'S THE GREATEST
NAME IN SPORT.
IT REALLY IS THE MOST
ANTICIPATED GAME I THINK SINCE
1984 IN ONE OF THOSE CELTICS
VERSUS LAKERS SERIES.
AND THIS JUST COOPERATE BE
BIGGER.
THE TV RATINGS ARE BIG.
AND EVERYONE IS FASCINATED AND
CAPTIVATED BY LEBRON JAMES.
EVERYONE HAS AN OPINION ON THAT
GUY.
>> Brown: THERE'S LEBRON JAMES
AND THEN THERE'S THIS OTHER
TEAM, THE SPURS WITH THEIR OWN
VERY VETERAN TEAM THAT AS YOU
JUST DESCRIBED LET THINGS FALL
AWAY AT THE END.
NOW, ONE QUESTION IS, HOW DO
THEY COME BACK AFTER SOMETHING
LIKE THAT?
>> BOTH TEAMS ARE PHYSICALLY
DRAINED, EQUALLY PHYSICALLY
DRAINED AND AFTER HIS PRESS
CONFERENCE TSDAYUE LEBRON JAMES
HAD A LOT OF TROUBLE EVEN
GETTING UP OUT OF HIS SEAT.
HE DID TAKE TIME TO NOTE AFTER
HIS PRESS CONFERENCE YESTERDAY
HE GOT UP PRETTY SPRYLY AND
SAID, SEE HOW EASY THAT WAS."
IT'S THE EMOTIONAL IMPACT A LOT
OF PEOPLE ARE FOCUSING ON.
I THINK THERE IS NO TEAM BETTER
SUITED TO DEAL WITH WEATHERING
THAT STORM THAN THE SAN ANTONIO
STORMS FROM THEIR BEST PLAYER
TIM DUNCAN, WHO IS EVER STOIC
BUT DOESN'T SEEM TO LET EMOTIONS
AFFECT HIM OR TAKE HIM OUT OF
THE GAME, TO HIS COACH, PROBABLY
THE GREATEST TACTICIAN IN THE
N.B.A., PROBABLY THE GREATEST
MOTIVATOR IN THE N.B.A.
EVEN THOUGH FANS ARE PERHAPS
FOISTING THEIR OWN EMOTION ON
THE TEAM, FANS WHO ARE DEF
STRAIGHT SAYING HOW ARE THE
SPURS GOING TO GET BACK THERE
FROM AN EMOTIONAL LEVEL?
I THINK THE SPURS ARE
PROFESSIONALS AND THE EMOTIONS I
DON'T THINK ARE GOING TO BE THE
THING THAT MAKES THE GAME TURN
ONE WAY OR THE OTHER.
>> Brown: WE TALKED ABOUT THIS
LAST GAME WHERE IT WENT INTO
OVERTIME IT WAS SO CLOSE.
BEFORE THAT, THEY TOOK TURNS
SORT OF KILLING EACH OTHER, AND
IT WAS INTERESTING TO WATCH THE
TEAM REBOUND.
THESE ARE NOT ONLY GREAT TEAMS.
THEY'RE SMART TEAMS.
THEY LEARN HOW TO ADJUST.
>> YEAH, EXACTLY.
IT'S PART OF THE GAME.
I THINK FOR THE HEAT IT'S BEEN
TOO MUCH A PART OF THEIR GAME
REBOUNDING OR ZIGZAGGING.
THEY'VE ALTERNATED BETWEEN WINS
AND LOSSES, 13 GAMES IN A ROW.
IF THEY WERE TO WIN TONIGHT THAT
WOULD BE THEIR FIRST TWO GAMES
IN A ROW HAVING WON SINCE THE
INDIANA SERIES.
THE LAST TIME THEY WON TWO GAYS
IN A ROW WAS MAY 20.
BUT NO ONE IS SAYING OH, IT WILL
BE HARD FOR THE HEAT TO
CONCENTRATE OR WIN TWO IN A ROW
BECAUSE THEY HAVE GAME SEVEN ON
THEIR HOME COURT AND THE LAST
FIVE GAME SEVENs THE HOME TEAM
HAS WON IN THE FINALS.
>> Brown: YOU MENTIONED LEBRON
JAMES, OF COURSE, AS THE FOCUS
OF-- ALWAYS THE FOCUS, REALLY,
WHETHER LOVED OR HATED, VILLAIN
OR HERO, AGAIN TONIGHT, RIGHT?
>> YEAH.
AND I NOTICE THAT NO ONE SAID,
"HEY, TIM DUNCAN ONLY HAD FIVE
POINTS IN THE SECOND HALF AND
ZERO POINTS IN OVERTIME."
NO ONE SAID, "WHAT WILL THIS DO
TO TIM DUNCAN'S LEGACY."
I THINK THAT IS FAIR.
TIM DUNCAN'S LEGACY IT IS IN
PLACE.
MAYBE LEBRON JAMES' IS, TOO.
WE LIKE TO KEEP ALL AMOUNT OF
SCORING ON LEBRON JAMES.
HE'S THE FOCAL POINT OF HIS
TEAM.
AS HE GOES, THE TAPE GOES.
THE THING IS HE USUALLY GOES
EXCEPTIONALLY WELL AND BY THE
END OF THE GAME, HE PUTS UP
TRIPLE DOUBLES AND STATISTICS
AND FANTASTIC PLAYS THAT HAS
EVERYONE FORGET AGO MAYBE
EVERYONE FORGETTING THAT DAY
WHEN HE SAID I'M TAKING MY
TALENTS TO SOUTH BEACH PAIN WIN
TODAY WILL MEAN THREE TRIPPEDZ
TO THE FINALS SINCE HE'S BEEN A
MEMBER OF THE HEAT, TWO
CHAMPIONSHIPS.
WHO COULD SAY ANYTHING ABOUT
THAT?
WELL, THE ANSWER IS EVERYONE WHO
HAS A SPORTS COLUMN.
NEXT YEAR, THE MOMENT LEBRON
JAMES GOES DOWN IN A SERIES.
BUT, STILL, HE'S PLAYED REALLY
WELL.
THOUGH YOU HAVE TO SAY IF THE
HEAT ARE TO WIN TONIGHT, HE'LL
HAVE TO PLAY WELL AGAIN.
>> Brown: JUST IN OUR LAST
MINUTE, I KNOW THIS WILL BE HARD
BUT IF I CAN TAKE YOUR MIND OFF
BASKETBALL AND TO THE ICE
BECAUSE THE INTERESTING STORY
THERE IS THAT THE SEASON THAT
STARTED SO-- ABOUT AS BADLY AS
IT POSSIBLE COULD BECAUSE IT
DIDN'T START, RIGHT, MAY END--
IS ENDING WITH A VERY-- IN A
VERY COMPELLING FASHION THAT
SHOWS THE SPORT MAYBE AT ITS
BEST.
>> RIGHT.
AND 48-GAME SEASON BECAUSE OF
THE WORK STOPPAGE, MADE FOR
PERHAPS EVERY REGULAR SEASON
GAME A BIT MORE MEANINGFUL, BUT
THE TEAMS DID NOT ALL PLAY EACH
OTHER.
THE WESTERN CONFERENCE DID NOT
PLAY THE EASTERN CONFERENCE.
THE BLACK HAWKS WERE THE BEST
TEAM IN THE WEST, PITTSBURGH WAS
THE BEST TEAM IN THE EAST BUT
BOSTON WAS REALLY, REALLY GOOD.
IF THESE GO SEVEN, THE SOAF
GAMES IN THE NHL FINALS -- OR
HOWEVER MANY IT WILL BE-- THE
FIRST CHANCE THE WEST HAS BEEN
FACING THE EAST.
IT'S BEEN GREAT.
THREE OF THE FOUR HAVE GONE TO
OVERTIME.
WE FINALLY SAW AN OFFENSIVE
EXPLOSION LAST NIGHT.
THE GOALTENDING OF BOSTON'S
TUUKKA RASK HAS BEEN
EXCEPTIONAL.
I WOULDN'T BE SURPRISED IF THE
SPORT OF HOCKEY AND THE SPORT OF
BASKETBALL ENJOY CLIMATIC GAME
SEVENS THIS SEASON.
>> Brown: I HADN'T REALIZED
BUT THESE ARE TWO OF THE
ORIGINAL TEAMS EYE MEAN IN
HOCKEY.
THEY HADN'T PLAYED EACH OTHER,
THESE TWO ORIGINAL TEAMS IN A
LONG TIME.
>> YEAH, AND, YOU KNOW, THE
RANGERS, THE MAPLE LEAFS, THE
CANADIANS-- WHO AM I MISSING?
WHO IS THE SIXTH MEMBER OF THE
ORIGINAL SIX.
>> Brown: DID YOU HAVE
MONTREAL IN THERE?
>> YEAH, YEAH, YEAH.
DETROIT RED WINGS.
DETROIT.
SURE, AND HOCKEY IS A SPORT WITH
TONS OF TRADITION AND THESE TWO
TEAMS LATELY HAVE BEEN GOOD.
THEY WENT THROUGH PRETTY DARK
PERIODS, BOTH OF THEM, FOR ABOUT
20 YEARS.
AND, YOU KNOW, WHOEVER WINS WILL
GIVE A REALLY, REALLY RABID FAN
BASE A BIT OF A GIFT, A HUGE
GIFT WITH THE STANLEY CUP.
>> Brown: LIST, MIKE PESCA OF
NPR.
ENJOY TONIGHT AND THE REST.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> SURE.
>> Suarez: FINALLY TONIGHT,
REMEMBERING JAMES GANDOLFINI.
THE ACTOR WAS BEST KNOWN FOR HIS
ROLE AS MOB BOSS TONY SOPRANO.
HE APPEARED IN HIS SHARE OF
GANGSTER ROLES.
BUT HE ALSO ACTED ON STAGE AND
IN A NUMBER OF FILMS, INCLUDING
AS A WHISTLEBLOWER IN THE LEGAL
DRAMA, "A CIVIL ACTION," A
GENERAL IN THE POLITICAL SATIRE,
"IN THE LOOP," AND MOST RECENTLY
AS THE C.I.A. DIRECTOR IIN "ZERO
DARK THIRTY."
BUT IT WAS HIS COMPLEX WORK ON
"THE SOPRANOS" THAT NETTED HIM
THREE EMMY AWARDS AND HELPED
FUEL BIG CHANGES IN THE APPROACH
TO T.V. DRAMAS.
GANDOLFINI PORTRAYED A BRUTAL
MOBSTER JUGGLING EVERYDAY
CONCERNS OF FAMILY LIFE AND WHO
STARTED SEEING A PSYCHIATRIST
FOR HIS ANXIETY ATTACKS.
HERE'S HOW THOSE MEETINGS BEGAN
IN THE OPENING EPISODE OF THE
SOPRANOS.
AS SOME VIEWERS MAY REMEMBER,
TONY WAS ALSO OBSESSED WITH A
FAMILY OF DUCKS THAT HAD FLOWN
AWAY FROM HIS HOUSE.
>> Suarez: JAMES GANDOLFINI DIED
YESTERDAY IN ROME WHILE ON
VACATION.
HE WAS 51 YEARS OLD.
>> Brown: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE PUSH FOR IMMIGRATION REFORM
GAINED STEAM AS SENATORS
ANNOUNCED A COMPROMISE ON BORDER
SECURITY.
THE DOW INDUSTRIALS LOST MORE
THAN 350 POINTS, DRIVEN IN PART
BY FEARS THAT THE FEDERAL
RESERVE WILL SCALE BACK STIMULUS
EFFORTS.
AND THE U.S. HOUSE REJECTED A
FIVE-YEAR, HALF-TRILLION-DOLLAR
FARM BILL, LARGELY ON DISPUTES
OVER CUTTING THE FOOD STAMP
PROGRAM.
>> Suarez: AND TOMORROW,
"NEWSHOUR" POLITICAL ANALYSTS
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID WILL
ANSWER YOUR QUESTIONS LIVE.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE
DETAILS.
>> Sreenivasan: ON A VERY
SPECIAL EDITION OF THE
DOUBLEHEADER-- DEVOTED TO THE
SPORT OF POLITICS AND POLITICS
OF SPORTS-- MARK AND DAVID ARE
GOING TO BE ANSWERING YOUR
QUESTIONS LIVE IN OUR NEWSROOM.
SUBMIT QUESTIONS AT THE RUNDOWN,
OR TWEET THEM TO @NEWSHOUR USING
THE HASHTAG #DOUBLEHEADERLIVE.
AND DON'T FORGET TO TUNE IN
FRIDAY AT 5:15 P.M. EASTERN
TIME.
PLUS, WHO POPULARIZED THE WORD
HORMONE?
WE LOOK BACK AT ITS ORIGINS, 108
YEARS AFTER ITS SCIENTIFIC
DEBUT.
>> AND GWEN IFILL WITHLER FIRST
REDIT, TOPICS RANGING FROM THE
POLITIC.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
RAY?
>> Suarez: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M RAY SUAREZ.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.